.config/.dotfiles/README.md, before:

# Keep dotfiles where they belong and avoid symlinks entirely.

This arrangement of dotfiles is taken from [here](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=11070797) and [here](https://developer.atlassian.com/blog/2016/02/best-way-to-store-dotfiles-git-bare-repo/). The idea is to keep all the dotfiles at their original locations, and avoid symlinks entirely (as opposed to the general approach of putting all config files in one directory and symlinking them with a script or GNU stow). Basically, we create a bare git repo and set the work-tree to be our `$HOME` directory. Then everytime we add a new config file to this repo, we do so specifying this work-tree (we make this easy by defining an alias command). This lets us keep the config files at their original locations, while also allowing them to be under version control. Here's how to do it:

## First time setup
```
git init --bare $HOME/.dotfiles
alias dots='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.dotfiles/ --work-tree=$HOME'
dots config --local status.showUntrackedFiles no
dots remote add origin git@github.com:JustAnAverageGuy/.dotfiles.git
```
You'll need to change the remote URL to your git repo. You should also add the `dotfiles` alias command to your `.bashrc` or  `.zshrc`. Now, you can use the `dotfiles` command to do git operation from anywhere in your $HOME directory:

### Operations
```
cd $HOME
dotfiles add .tmux.conf
dotfiles commit -m "Add .tmux.conf"
dotfiles push
```
## New machine setup
To set up a new machine, clone the repo to a temporary directory. This is because you might have some default config files in your $HOME which will cause a normal clone to fail.
```
git clone --separate-git-dir=$HOME/.dotfiles https://github.com/JustAnAverageGuy/.dotfiles.git tmpdotfiles
rsync --recursive --verbose --exclude '.git' tmpdotfiles/ $HOME/
rm -r tmpdotfiles
```

> [!NOTE]
> Currently not added neovim config, fetch it separately from <https://github.com/JustAnAverageGuy/kickstart.nvim>


> [!TODO]
> add neovim config as a submodule to this
> read up on <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules>

Commit message:

Fix command in readme
Use the dots command instead of dotfiles

.config/.dotfiles/README.md, after:

# Keep dotfiles where they belong and avoid symlinks entirely.

This arrangement of dotfiles is taken from [here](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=11070797) and [here](https://developer.atlassian.com/blog/2016/02/best-way-to-store-dotfiles-git-bare-repo/). The idea is to keep all the dotfiles at their original locations, and avoid symlinks entirely (as opposed to the general approach of putting all config files in one directory and symlinking them with a script or GNU stow). Basically, we create a bare git repo and set the work-tree to be our `$HOME` directory. Then everytime we add a new config file to this repo, we do so specifying this work-tree (we make this easy by defining an alias command). This lets us keep the config files at their original locations, while also allowing them to be under version control. Here's how to do it:

## First time setup
```
git init --bare $HOME/.dotfiles
alias dots='/usr/bin/git --git-dir=$HOME/.dotfiles/ --work-tree=$HOME'
dots config --local status.showUntrackedFiles no
dots remote add origin git@github.com:JustAnAverageGuy/.dotfiles.git
```
You'll need to change the remote URL to your git repo. You should also add the `dots` alias command to your `.bashrc` or  `.zshrc`. Now, you can use the `dots` command to do git operation from anywhere in your $HOME directory:

### Operations
```
cd $HOME
dots add .tmux.conf
dots commit -m "Add .tmux.conf"
dots push
```
## New machine setup
To set up a new machine, clone the repo to a temporary directory. This is because you might have some default config files in your $HOME which will cause a normal clone to fail.
```
git clone --separate-git-dir=$HOME/.dotfiles https://github.com/JustAnAverageGuy/.dotfiles.git tmpdotfiles
rsync --recursive --verbose --exclude '.git' tmpdotfiles/ $HOME/
rm -r tmpdotfiles
```

> [!NOTE]
> Currently not added neovim config, fetch it separately from <https://github.com/JustAnAverageGuy/kickstart.nvim>


> [!TODO]
> add neovim config as a submodule to this
> read up on <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules>
